MS Analytics Class 2021: We should be ready to go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think I need to share the screen right okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'm gonna share screen one right, yes, sir.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Can y'all see that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So just a little housekeeping real quick, so one thing I did when Mayra sent me the syllabus over Christmas, I was actually said and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it had the the order of things a little wrong on one thing I just noticed that this week, but we're not going to be doing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: devops cic D pipeline tonight they'll actually be February 25 but tonight Randy docker containers and web services.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So basically that devops the ice in the pipeline is just pushed down to the second to last week of my section which ends march forth, and they are they just moved up, so it just makes you ordering right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, which is actually the order I did last year, but I change this order of the three weeks into last year, but I guess myra just pulled the original syllabus as I had it and I didn't notice.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That it wasn't in the right order so and also updated the day when if you're looking for that sad I just went into your.
When we started, seeing that real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Everybody go okay.
He finds him.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so yeah if you just go to your E campus and under syllabus.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just put yeah the original syllabus there I just got an update and all I did was just put what you just saw it last the schedule of the bottle now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Will that change my order he won't change but Dr hartman when he does, Dr hartman when he has a second half the class adopt his ordering will change either he's been doing this for a while, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know if he does so make an update as well, but I don't expect them to but I don't have anything really the second half, so that that makes sense, everybody.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can close that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The slides up so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So oh yeah one other thing so For those of you that came to the home they have office hours on Monday I did post a let me get out of this real quick I guess close the syllabus that I closed the campus sorry I won't go back to the campus and waste time because but on campus.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For week one I posted and I think I don't know if I post this before last class or not or.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Not because I showed it last class, but I posted an update to that artificial neural net tensorflow Python script.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't pay to the zip file So if you re download the zip file you get it, but if you've already downloaded the zip file you don't need to re download it I just I did just post the Python file, but what I said what I recommend.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is watching the last 1015 minutes of the office hours my script was originally not long everything is right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: has to do with, if you remember when I was showing the fight over a lot going on, but when I was showing you that artificial neural net Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: script by RON and say about the data from the tensorflow charisse model we want hot we do the books called one hot encoding of the predictor variable is a predictor variable.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Was the line quality and the wind qualities from like one to 10, and so we raised that line based upon all those variables to get on quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With tensorflow, we have to have that variable we can't have those categorical variables, we have to one hot encoded so we end up with is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is instead of one column with numbers ranging in this case it's three eight we only have quite a while pollyanna data for online.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hasn't right now the actual ratings are like just from reading and three three and eight, so we end up with the one hot coding is we end up with mine columns.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With 0123 all the way to a and if the rays of the line is five, then the the six column one is five will be a one all the rest of the columns and be zero.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so that's why, when I did the prediction of that one and I got nine outputs i'm like wait actually get one that's not true because what it's doing isn't the no and it's just given a probability.
MS Analytics Class 2021: of how much what's the probability of that line being each one of those classes and the only the highest probability.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is the actual class that it would say you per day right, and so, if you watch the last 15 minutes 1015 minutes of the office hours this Monday I go into great detail a little more.
MS Analytics Class 2021: detail about that, so if you're just curious to i'm sure you've heard the term one hot encoding I know a few people mentioned that in the office hours I go into great detail about.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How about how about encoded and what it is and how the output is and then, if you download the file and put a lot of comments into it, explaining what's going on but that's just a side note from the last class so.
Okay, any questions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, I just heard, I just read them yeah This might be a loaded question, I thought it was for me, but I don't think it is so all right let's get started with the actual lessons.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Over the lesson for today and i'll do probably like 2030 minutes of slides just going to do some concepts and then i'll do like what I did.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the first week and, secondly, is i'll open up code i'll install some software i'll show you how it all works right i'll show you how the bacons made I won't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: bore you too much of the details of slides, but I do want to get some concepts out there for you to understand and then we'll go and have a lot of fun and actually make the sausage and bacon together or carrots hippies whatever kind of food you like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so doctor and web services so let's the outline of what we're talking about today so we'll talk about what is docker give you overview talk about different components of docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we'll talk about flask and what that does, and so the basic concept for today is in, week one and week $2 million a week to actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Wait and we built we had some Python files, where we had some beta product in a ransom models against it, we save that data out here to a pickle file to john blog file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To be able to then read that model back in from that file, so that we can go into predictions against it, so the idea being hey a train a model, I have a good model, I want to save this model and then use this model for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Future use for prediction so in the case of the red wine quality data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: model we did you know, think about it like a fever, you know white fuzziness magazine and you're not that your customers are probably have the tools to go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And every the acidity and the alcohol and all these different things of their why models, but let's say you wanted to have a service for for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: vendors, who have all that stuff and you say hey we took and took all the lines from the last 30 years and all these different measures of them.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we built this model or you give us these you know 10 parameters thanks 10 or 1111 variables will give you a rating and what that quality is going to be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So he built this we built this piece of software, where we built this model we saved this model he provide us with those numbers from your wine for this year.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we'll come back and tell you what the quality rating is so let's say you're going to build this application in the Web for for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For people to use well how can you serve that out, and so what we're going to do in the next couple weeks is show you how I can take this model we built take that that that pickle file or that job log file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then build using docker which is containerization technology and flask, which is a package inside Python that allows me to serve up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The code inside of my Python what's called a rest API so it's a in a website so it's a web API allows me to make a call to the website or this is hosted.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Give it give it some data in this case the independent variables for my wife, quality and i'm going to give you back a packet of values of what those quality ratings are from the data, you gave to me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we're going to use these docker containers to take a package these.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This code up in the Python code up and in this class code inside Python to then serve out these models and julie's type containers and what we're talking about next week is how we then can take.
MS Analytics Class 2021: These docker containers and docker images and then cluster them and spread them out, so you know if I had millions of customers if I was the Amazon where you're searching.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know Amazon to look for a you know, whatever right, you know Amazon has probably millions of customers a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Korea right, and so they have to have the technology to scale out and support all that so we're talking about that next week, but tonight we're talking about how I can take this model I built.
MS Analytics Class 2021: package, it up into this little neat docker image and container and then serve it out with flask.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that I can then through a web interface call this rest API that's called with some independent variables to get back a prediction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's the outline of what we're talking about tonight i'll go over the concepts of Dr concepts of class and then i'll just put an action show you what it looks like and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think that'll just kind of put the bow and once you see how the code works, I think it only makes sense, with everything that's going on and what i'm talking about so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what is docker docker is a is a containerization platform, so that allows me to take and develop these images of code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: into the small lightweight containers and so What it does is, if you think about your laptop it has an operating system line right all the laptops you have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or windows 10 right and the ones that you're using for this class, some of you might be using apple.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you're using Max docker runs on MAC so just fyi just like visual studio code runs on MAC mini Canada Canada runs on MAC doctoral level Max as well, but you're right whether it's windows 10 or it's you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: MAC os you have this is that you're operating systems right well docker container lightweight container ization technology that allows me to run these lightweight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can think of them as i'll call them mineo so it's not they're not leaving mineo so like it's not like their own OSS that allows me to run these lightweight services containers of of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: machines or user machines or microservices is what they're calling.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On my on my on my laptop on my server and the clap, and so what allows me to do is to take my hope my posts or that'd be my laptop, whether it be a server and my data Center.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the Office, whether it be some hardware up in the cloud with Google.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cloud with as your web server as using Amazon web services or Microsoft azure cloud, we can take these docker containers in London and they can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we can then have things like have Linux running on our windows machine in these docker containers and then we can package up our application.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can package up whatever os, we need to run that application and whatever all the little bits and pieces, we need it, this one little tight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker image that runs on what's called a docker container image, then the image is a physical the physical files and things that make up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A docker docker image is all the files and different pieces that come together for that little package, and then we can instantiate that image into a small container so that's the running instance of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That image, so you take that little tight bundle of all our stuff and what our code inside of that little docker and container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so the cool thing about, that is because it's so tight so small it's very flexible and it's very interchangeable and scalable maybe.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can take this container and I can give you the same container to run your code and I can take this container and give it to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: publish it up into the cloud and one I can scale it out and to things like Cooper daddy's will talk about Cooper and he says now but it's an.
MS Analytics Class 2021: orchestration software that allows us to take these docker containers and scale it out, so I can have one one docker image to scale out across 1000 containers and a Cooper daddy's cluster.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when you come in so i'm having is one container try and do all the work I have thousands of them are just close to one another and orchestration software that manages all those answers out my date, so we can set Dr to speak of this really lightweight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Packaging type software to create what's called these micro services that can run on on on your machine or in the cloud or on your servers so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So docker hub so so docker has docker hub, and so what docker hub is it's a cloud based service of Dr offers that allows you to store these docker images.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, these docker images are all the necessary files and packages and components that are needed to run your docker container so the run your.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Your essence of that package right, and so a lot of the work has been done for you so and later on we're going to go and download a bunch of a scabby and not have been to a debian Linux.
MS Analytics Class 2021: image from docker hub that also has Python three six on it and it'll be a slimmed down version of Python three six it won't be the full version of it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there'll be a slimmed down version that has just enough for the Python in each on our code, and the reason being is we want that little image to be a small and tight as it can be, because we want to be able to take that image and scale it out once a month, a bunch of containers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that we can handle scale and handle you know lots of people trying to hit these things out depending where you're at if you know what you're doing might have a requirement to scale out 1000 container docker containers for your application, you might just need one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the nice thing is the good thing is even if you're not a very, very small shop and I see a few people the stopper technology is still really valuable because.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you package, it up into this image it's portable so you can reuse it and and and serve it out and it's in a in a technology that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is not a framework easily serve it out for you right, and so what docker hub is is it's online, supported by a docker and it's just a collection of a bunch of different images that people have published up there for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we're going to go to this little bit later on when I go into the DEMO but you'll see where there's just tons and tons of different docker images out there, that you can download and use that are already pre packaged and set up for you to run for your code so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I said i'm going to throw these words out go through the slides.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's just to kind of give you those terminology mean and then, when I go and actually show you the most I think it'll start clicking a little more, but I just want to get you the terminology out there, so I start DEMO in it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It makes a little more sense, so you heard of historic docker image so docker image it's just all the files and necessary binaries and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: tools and libraries and settings and different things that are needed to run that piece of software that package that to try and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I say package on that send me like a Python package, but in kind of almost thinking like that, but it's that whole package up piece of all the stuff you need to run that piece of code, so I found serving up this red wine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: model we built through a glass container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I talked about it's going to be the Linux operating system we're used to serve it up it's gonna be the Python it's going to be the packages, we need in that Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's going to be my binary pickle file or my binary job lot files going to sit there because I need that to be instantiated my model it's going to have some Python code to serve up that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: model to you, so you can call and use it and that's all going to be put into this docker image, so this physical image and so they're lightweight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The standby themselves, and you know, there are executable and you can execute these image and containers all star from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Images right, so the image is that physical package that physical piece of software that we put together, but then we need to run a container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, once we have the image downloaded to our machine or to our server to our cloud where we're hosting this we then can instantiate that image we build the image, so that little visual the bottom associate right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We take what's called a docker file that has all the parameters, we need to build a docker image docker image gets build a store on our server on our machine wherever running docker from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And once you build that image we then run that image as a container me rather than images one container you can still a container out to multiple containers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and different things and we'll talk more about scaling out into multiple containers next week.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But for tonight we're going to take a docker file or build a docker image and then we're taking a docker image and run that as one container on our machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we're going to in that container have a model we built for the red wine quality data, where I have the Python executable and the Python packages, we need.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To use that model and serve that model out for prediction and we're going to have the os in this case will be a minute so less so, if you don't know what Linux is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You might have heard the term Linux unix Linux is very soaking MAC os is a Linux kind of based.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So um it's just a different type of os that's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: been around for a long time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's unix has been around for forever and then for a long, long forever.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i've been using units for about 30 something years now and then Linux was a guy named Linus torvalds decided to create his own very of unix called Linux that's where that comes from from this name Linus but it's just a free variant of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: units that the sky get reliance's from over in Europe somewhere created and so it's just a it's just a different type of class but it's very popular for a while we're building these docker containers is a super lightweight and super easy to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To use and package them together so most people when they're running docker they're usually using Linux images and running these these images as containers and Linux you can install docker and on a windows machine to run windows containers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I actually will show you how to install docker here and a little bit and you'll see an option, where you have to select to say, I want to run docker and run a window images and failure when windows containers we're not going to do that, so we want to use Linux.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, but you can't do windows to For those of you that are already it people.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And there's just not a doctor and you said hell and run Linux I want to run windows, you can whichever find that most places and most people are gonna be running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: running these in Linux containers, so I can go to the cloud and start trying to host your docker containers in the cloud and things they're going to most of those are all going to be on Linux space servers where these are and run and run Linux so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So any questions so far, we have an image it's the actual software that we, we have a docker file we use to build this image and this is all the pieces and the physical files and packages and everything in the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To build runs this piece of software and docker and then we go and we can so.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We then we can take that image and go back to docker file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me take that image and then we can run an instance of that image as a container so you can have an image saved on your machine and you can run it multiple times.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On your machine in different container for different containers so so that's just the physical memory and things running on your machine have an image that's your actual application running in that docker container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, so they like there's always a baby they actually run the actual application right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so I skipped a slide I go back to So how do we build these images, so that we can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Then run these images containers and i'll start with the file called a docker file it doesn't have an extension has got a capital D.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's just a file that says docker file and it's attached file and has all the instructions on how to build those images, so I talked about docker hub.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One of the first things you'll see on the top of this docker file is and i'll DEMO this adult.
MS Analytics Class 2021: have to write this down you'll see in the code is going from statement that says hey from this go pull down this image and so and the imagery and pull down and our demos is Python three six SLIM and so it's a it's a it's a debian Linux.
MS Analytics Class 2021: image with Python three six installed on it, but it's a swimmer down version of Python three six it's not as fat so i've had all the different.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pieces of Python that comes with a full install Python, but it has just enough for the Python that we need.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To run our code, and the reason why I went the summers in our case, do you want to keep this as tight as small as you can, but the idea of if we ever need to scale this out and going one more time on that, so you can keep saying that you got.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It very take this little image we have won't be as small as we can right abilities docker images we don't want just add a lot of stuff that we to add it and so when they build these images we want to make some type of small, as we can, so in this case i'm sorry sorry question.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Why Islam, he used for Dr because nerves like need built docker but also it's just because most of your server environments and things.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Have out there and is is Linux based and a lot of hadoop infrastructure so think about where a lot of docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: came from, and all these different containerization is all this stuff you know it all started with the reason for these microservices is this whole idea of big data and these big.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And do different things like that, and so all of these are all built on Linux technologies and so when people built.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker they originally it's all built originally on Linux and Linux it's just lightweight it just run a super fast and super so it's it's real hard to windows is a pretty thick os.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's not really like a lightweight windows per se, they do have some lightweight windows 10 that runs on arm processors, but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: windows, as the OSS pre header text, a lot of things are on windows right, and so, if you wanted to container eyes windows 10.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's going to be a pretty big container i'm a pretty big image and it doesn't take a lot of memory space to run that windows 10 or that windows server contain right or as Linux is a super it's a super small, it can be really super small and tight lightweight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Plus, plus parallelization and and the way Linux processors all work, the way the way things work in Linux thing sometimes you kind of do parallelization a little better.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's that's The main reason, but the main reason is because there's a built in are.
MS Analytics Class 2021: super Harris and superintendents like Linux but it's more to do and just the technology that the way they're building it for us, you know, to support all of these things around big data stuff about technology was built.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On Linux because it's open source is free right windows you got to pay for it, so when people go and build this is a lot of open source technology, people are building it, they want to pick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Things that are free free for people can go and get us so they can keep it open source right so with windows, you know by license so that's one of the other reasons why, but any more questions, but I answer your question.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Yes, thank you okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cool so this docker file it's just a file that has all the information we need to build a docker image has things like what port to expose so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you don't know what a port is when you go to a web page and you go to http colon whatever web page that port is port 80 so on a machine that's running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: machine has that has a web server running and that web servers and we run a report at http but nowadays we audit https right, this is the secure ssl http that runs important for for three, and so what it is, is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The operating system need a way to have a process running and have a way for you to go connect to that process.
MS Analytics Class 2021: coming in from the Internet or wherever and internal can be an internal network right has has a way for you to come in and say hey I want to hit to this application.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and write on your machine, and so what they use are these ports to run different applications right, and so, for http.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Port 84 web pages https port 443 so in these docker files you're going to see where we do things like expose the ports, we need so that, in this case because we're going to package up a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Python application using flash, which is a rest API web based API.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we need to be able to connect to that are in your things in these docker files like expose port, so that we can then know how to hit that thing and use it across what ports and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're all the dependencies and all the things and all the information you need in this docker text file, so that I can build this image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So once I build the image, I can then go take and say hey run this image as a container and that containers now my software running so the way you think of it it's like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know you have excel sitting on your machine right or you have jump you know, the images that the all the executable that are sitting on your machine for jump.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you don't use job until you launched jump until you run jump and then, once you click the icon for job it goes to the jumpy etsy and it runs job and now jump is running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In your machine right for you to go and use jump so you can think of docker images like hey I built this image it's got my doctor package.
MS Analytics Class 2021: By doctors piece of software this image sitting on my machine now, I have to launch and run this docker image in a container so that I can then go and use this software use this docker image i've built so that's the idea that contain if that makes sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Thank you sure every question so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So how we build these docker images.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't worry about reading the text but, basically, you have a docker file uses Dr bill command and then you tell us the name of your image name.
MS Analytics Class 2021: what's your question what the name of your image to be and then some tags and conversion right, so you can have multiple versions so we're going to look at the Python when here in a minute and docker hub, the Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: image and there's multiple versions out there it's like Python three six Python three six SLIM there's.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know Python 375738 even some like early things of Python three nine, but they have all these images and you can also have a version.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To version certain images so it's like you know right any kind of software right yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have you know excel 2013 the msl 2016 and then you have you know office 365 so you have a way to version and build different versions of these images.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you have a way we build this image to do that version as well, but the main point here on this slide is just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We build we take this docker file created and then, once we have it, we use the doctor bill command to build that image so it's going to go look at the stuff you have in your text file go download when it needs to go build this image and store it on your machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's that but that Dr bill command does so, then like I said once we have the image, the image is nothing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can't do anything with that image until you're running right so i'm going to take an image and we have to critical.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have to run the product docker container of that image, so that we can then use that use that that software right, so we have to launch it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: just use the word launch, but we have to create a container running that docker image so that's through this docker run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's that minus D that you see right there that's i'll talk about that my DEMO and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What that does is when I issued a docker run command the mighty means detach, and so what that does is i'm sitting on a command prompt and my machine type docker run if I don't put the minus D my container runs i'll just sit there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In inside the container running and you can't execute you can't leave that command.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you can, if you accept that command and control Seattle command when your container right so what's the minus the option does this say hey start my container detached from my container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that I could go back and doing when you do, then my containers running so we have some things about ports, you have a container port host port, so what that means is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The container port is the port inside of my container so you think of this containers like little lightweight OSS that are running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On top of your machine so when you start this figure docker image and you run this container of this docker image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You also get it's like having to own your own little mini micro service machine running on your machine and you need to connect to that service well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you need to connect through a port, you have to say hey, this is the port inside that container I want to connect to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you have a colon and then you say hey from the outside world, this is the port i'm going to go and from the connect to the one inside of the container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can actually kind of do what's called port mapping where on the inside the docker container might be running with one port on the outside world use a different port, so that people can get to it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you have to tell the image name that you want i'm just walking through that line right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You tell it what image name and version that she wants to run so you build your image, you have that docker image sitting on your machine, then you use this docker run command.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To then go and instantiate the image as a container right on your machine and now your application is right here so piece of software is running right so now, you can go in and attached to it and do things with it right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And i'm going to DEMO all this, I just put some commands up there, so like Dr P s little if you run that command that'll show you the status of all your containers running so you can have multiple containers running on your box.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can so once you, if you remember, I had that minus D less than detached demand, so I started my docker container if I use up my sd.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I started my container and I detached from it, and so my containers running so funny to go back into that container so I can look at it, I can use the docker attached attached to my container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that I can view this ongoing output or control it it's like that control V to detach.
MS Analytics Class 2021: device stop my container so I started my container and I want to stop it so it's not running docker stop if I can kill it like I can't it won't stop I can attach to it there's a doctor kill command that says hey.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Until my kill my container i'm going to DEMO all these commands here in a minute, but I just wanted you to have a slide so you have a reference to go back to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The doctor rem so your container so one thing to think about is when I start and I run my containers running I can stop that container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that I just stop it from running my container instances still there, so, then I can restart it back on and so on, but then, if I want to just remove the container altogether, I can use this Dr rm command and ruin my container now my image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is still there, so that's that part still there there's a there's a command to remove your image as well, you want to i'll show you that in a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So any questions so far I know at a high level, I mean it'll make more sense when I show you it, but a high level just can understand that doctors, a way to take and build this really lightweight microservice to has.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A little bit of a lightweight version of an ios and some software code all packaged together and there's one image that we can run as a container so that we can then connect to it and do whatever you do with the type of software running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Running in this case we're going to write a flask press release the flask patch flask excuse me, the Flash package and Python to write up a rest API for connecting to to to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Do our why prediction right, so we can take our model serve it up as a web API so that I can know go and call that web API with a packet of data, in this case are independent variables are acidity.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All those different pH all those different variables, we have remember off top of my head, I see it as 1111 independent variables and impact pass a movie was going to call json.
MS Analytics Class 2021: json package to it to that web service running inside of a docker container and then it's gonna take that daily pass to it and it's going to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: serve back out our predictions so i'll show you what it all looks like in the DEMO and that'll that'll hopefully make a little more sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, so this is just a lot, as the last slide so an assignment right, and so this is just kind of a preview the next week right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, this is just kind of a slideshow and how we take flash docker and this idea of deployment models put it all together and actually serve it out in the real world so that's the previous slide were talking about last week, but the idea here is, you know, starting from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just showing you the Cooper nettie architecture, so what this is, as we look, right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, we have this cluster and, if you look at all these will containers are they running these little pods inside of Cooper daddy's and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: If you think about in our life quality data let's say we had you know, thousands of vendors trying to use this this this type of data sets pilot scalable, but if you think about like an Amazon.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And they built a service for you to get other services like for placing an order services for searching for products and things right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so I don't know if Amazon uses Cooper daddy's or Dr are they using my but they could take and build a container and build one little one little docker image that's the search capability.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then they can take through Cooper daddy's I can take that one image and scale it out across thousands of containers.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Of that one image and Miss that one image running 1000 different times, and then the super headings architecture allows it so that when end users hit it knows how to orchestrate and put them right to where they need.
MS Analytics Class 2021: right to say hey i'm gonna go to this container give you your data answer back right and so it's going to orchestrate all these thousands of docker containers running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The same image in this case the search functionality percent right so we're talking more about this next week, but I just kind of wanted to give you a preview of.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Why just kind of like why, why would you can pay like Why would I just take my Python code right normal standalone application.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And windows as an executable that I run and it serves out a web page and then you can go and hit it yeah that works great if you're a small shop for a small number of people hitting.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But when you have to go think about how to scale out some kind of application across thousands to millions of users.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This containerization technology docker allows me to take package up this really lightweight image of my software.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then through docker have a package in this doctor I can then serve it out as docker containers through an orchestration engine like Cooper daddy's across multiple thousands possibly of.
containers.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I see all references to flask but alright so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, that being said, we're going to do all demos, for the rest of the hour and 12 minute we have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So any questions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Clear as mud, right now, like what you see a match and make a little more sense, but you know, the main concepts what you get is Dr we package up this little bundle lightweight microservice package.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And to an image using a docker file and then we take that image and run it as a container and that container becomes our instance of the software running so that we can connect to it and use our application and this case predicting wine so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can't remember the password.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Remember the password let me pull something up real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I had this open earlier, but then we had the project coaching me, I think it must have died, the session is timed out or something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh, I forgot.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I thought I was like into a few many characters.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I didn't know what I promise I suddenly hit enter too early.
MS Analytics Class 2021: forgot a number.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: downloaded the zip file, one of the things we need to do first and in don't try to like follow, along with me because.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know the steps will take a little longer to get to where i'm going so you know just kind of pay attention to watch on doing and then do this after the fact, but i'm going to show you how to install docker on your on your image gets you going.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then show you how it all works together so, but if you download the zip file what I did was I put out there, or Doc.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With all instructions on how to install docker on your machine so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't have the MAC versions, but you know your laptop from the store all windows 10 so I have step by steps is either get docker like Stalin I set up an account how you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when you install it to see the second it's gotta have a windows Linux subsystem that runs to the Linux can run for the doctor.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, all that is outlined in this Doc for you, so I gave you screenshots and everything actually updated it today so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's up to date, because you know when I did this last year at to go to Dr our free one oh Microsoft has an another a newer version of what's called their windows.
MS Analytics Class 2021: subsystem for Linux so it's a reason why you're on Linux or windows is because Microsoft has this enabling technology on top of their windows 10 and or their windows machines to level Linux to run as a subsystem of.
Kendall Sizemore: All these instructions are here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm just gonna walk you through those instructions get docker installed and then go through.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: first thing is go to dr.com.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, and then we just click this little get started, right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And if you scroll down right here, and I have screenshot for all this, you see, see Dr desktop for windows right reasons email right right there so once I click that take you to this to this screen right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you can just click the skit Dr button right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is going to download the 64 bit version of docker and you see it's going to mine probably where you want to save it years probably just saves it right to your download folder so I was just save it to my downloads.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is just putting the software, we need to solve.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh it's done.
MS Analytics Class 2021: stand for viruses.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's done okay so, then you get this docker desktop installer So this is the free version of docker for developing and for playing on your desktop right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So there's different versions for the enterprise and all that but for what you do when you're writing code and developing code this docker desktop version as well, but what you'll need.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Next week, and the week next week i'll show you how it will take a docker image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we'll take this docker image we build locally and then we'll save it up into azure into what's called container registry and then we'll take that as a painter injury spin it up as a doctor instance in the cloud and then we'll also.
MS Analytics Class 2021: split it up into Cooper daddy's cluster so we can scale out so so when you're on it just take the defaults make sure you leave these objects, this is in this is in the Doc.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: i'm sorry, this is an album and there's been a lot of chatter about this bolting on the discord and in the zoom meeting but.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Be careful when installing this if anyone is using fat or any of those like fast em or something like that installing this may have an effect on that so if you're at home and your capstone involved fat.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: You might try and selling this on a different computer than your laptop and if that's what you're using.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You say somebody had issues with docker and SAS.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: More than one person yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh that's interesting I don't remember anybody last you're.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Having issues with enterprise wire.
Endert, Craig Russell: and regular SAS.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and regular SAS that's weird because we I said we didn't have anybody have an issue last semester so that's weird I don't know SAS or something new yeah if anybody has anybody having that issue, let me know i'd like to probably take some time with you over the next week.
Jordan Gross: Professor we may actually know the fix to it as well if.
Jordan Gross: we've found that it's just some edits that doctor makes to a host file in windows.
That.
Jordan Gross: I think Craig had maybe a way better explanation, but he's documented to fix pretty well in the discord We just need to share it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: it's just a warning know that this is a known issue don't don't panic when it happened.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay that's good to know so yeah if you have a fix you want to send it to me i'll put it up on campus.
Endert, Craig Russell: You got it.
Endert, Craig Russell: yeah that'd be fantastic.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then yeah you said it to me, but nobody campus and maybe what we could do is is I can, if one of us already done, the fix and it's nice enough to volunteer i'll save five minutes at the end for you to show your fellow classmates what that fixes that'd be fantastic.
Endert, Craig Russell: i'll stay on for five minutes after.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah well i'll say five minutes before i'll keep you longer so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we're installing it percent take to enable.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Make sure you leave all that you can you don't want desktop shortcut you cannot do that but make sure you leave enable hyper V windows features because you're going to need that for work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: properly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so your packet bunch of files.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Ever reviewed, a couple times and then go on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you know, and I say that i'm wondering if I think a couple people, maybe you have an issue that everybody did last year, I say that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't remember it being a huge problem, but nice say that maybe somebody did but yeah that'd be great if you send me this document and i'll post it up on the campus and they definitely i'll save 510 minutes at the end of class before nine o'clock to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So you can show the people to fix i'll be awesome.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And and, that being said, while this is running for a minute, if you install docker some breaks and you can't be your capstone my texts sentence cell phone number is, at the end of every slide right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so immediately text me email me and say i'm broke I can't continue my capstone i've been in it for 30 something you're looking pretty much usually most things jump jump will tell you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, do not like stress if it's broken copy text me an email me call me call me i'll have your number saved and i'll probably just show up as spam and going spam but text me email me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: email me screenshots of the errors are getting and then text me and say hello.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is, you know so, and so, in your class my SAS isn't working at my capstone and I emailed you a screenshot to the errors on having I promise you I will get with you right away and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As soon as I can, and will get to fix so don't stress, no, no don't please don't hesitate to text me, I have no family.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Have a life and the dogs i've been married 22 years this year, but I have the kids that I have to worry about picking up from school or anything like that so lots of free time not really, but I do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: find more than most, the case itself, but so don't worry, please text me don't don't because I don't want to do is come to class next.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Thursday a whole week and you know yeah i've been fighting all weeks I had this happen, a lot last year, or people were doing that, so, while this is running i'm gonna go and open up a few files and show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What what what's going on Okay, so I mean actually doing visual studio.
MS Analytics Class 2021: he's gonna walk you through like what the what the docker file, so, if you remember.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Last week i'm going to show the pickle file first So if you were in a pickle following don't know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: go away.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, you were out of control file if we get down at the end right, so you build up a model we have on our here, we had our model we say like this model and we say that out, as this Doc that all right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is a model that we're going to use your predictions never reset some data in the predictions right, so we sent those long as 10 columns or lemon columns and 123.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hundred 11 I think how really all we need for this docker images this that file right, we need this this file that has a model in it, so that we can package this up in our docker container image throughout our container so that we can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Excuse me, so that we can insert this model out so i'm going to close this folder because this is from week one and i'm going to open up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The free.
MS Analytics Class 2021: See, I told you that I did you know go here and get this working, and so what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna start with this is like a friendly Hello got docker we're gonna start with that one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so inside of here, I have three files, I have requirements tax, it has one word in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: class.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's just the only package that's not a default package and Python that I need for my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My APP application and i'm running in this friendly Hello friendly Hello 363 6000 Python three six friendly hello, as in like Hello world, so this apartments test is used by this docker file somewhere right, so the docker file is just text file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have from Python three six dot slim, this is going to have that docker.com to pull down the Python image and the version that image is pretty SLIM one so it's a precinct version of Python that slim down, it says basics for working.
MS Analytics Class 2021: sets of things like working directory now are now actually using these actually we are using.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This APP directory and what we're doing is we're creating a directory called APP inside of our image and then we're saying, and all the files that are in our root folder where this docker file is to this slack APP.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we're running a command on that host when we build this say do pip install summer we install packages, we use condo he's pip we're not using content right using maybe another anaconda.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On our containers why because that's an extra layer of software that we don't need you want these to be lightened tighten the writing spa so we're just going to use the regular pip install install packages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, and then what it's going to start with packages are expressed off it says thoughts and our apartments that text, if you remember, in this case, this is just a simple one, to show you the flask API so you have an application using the Flash.
MS Analytics Class 2021: flash package for serving our rest API we're just installing the flood because that's all it means for this particular one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we're exposing port 80, and this is the default port for web pages are exposing port 80 so that we can then go and call our service.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I got some variable names I don't know if I use the world name there, but then we run a command say run the Python command and with this APP dot P, while so P wine so we're basically writing the APP that P like Python file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: which looks like this, so when we when we build this image it's going to have all those commands in there to build those image and that command at the bottom is when we start we start our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Our our container from this image that's the commanded us to run to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When it starts like a tailor in this case is to run the Python file and what it's doing is it's going to use that flash package or work that's what's the requirements it's like package we install.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Import os and socket, so this is so that we can have the socket and stuff available for the Web browser less mean like to the Pratt flash.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have this APP route and what this APP route is is like when you go to a web server and you go to http www Google COM that's slash I still roots, so in this case when we serve out this particular.
MS Analytics Class 2021: piece of code here we're going to serve it out as a route, so we don't have to have you know, so if I go and look at like something like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Here see where I have held.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Excuse me, going code that dr.com and have flash ambitions so like if this particular page or served up through a flash container it might be served, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: In this code right here you'd see something like slash admissions process right does that make sense, what this little APP routes doing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is like are going after our web server slash we're going in this case we're just staying through and then we're just say hey we're defining a function called hello, this is the html code that were put out recently put out Hello main.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's that variable that was in the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Here see we're obeying.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we're saying hey returned the hostname.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this is coming back to the variables variables for right here, see so then we're saying return html right here format we're saying hey go get from the OSS that variable is set on name.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Yet world and then this host this is just a package from the import os to get the hosting whatever hostname is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we're saying hey then we're just in the main, of a Python we're saying hey run this and this just zero zeros over putting because it's just running inside this container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so this is technically IP address, but with the 000 zeros donations are running inside the container at the sport at and they're going to report as if you know some docker file we're exposing for a right so make sure those those ports match right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's the docker file so that's that's the free files that make this up the docker file, which will use to build the image and also has instructions, so that when you do the run command for the container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is what happens it runs this APP poi and then requirements, this is used by the docker file, so that what sets this whenever it goes and builds this image and stages contain it's going to install these packages when it starts the container right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: everyone's been.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Very good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to just minimize this for a second and go back to her and sorry for installs done so now, it says we got to close and restart so i'm just gonna in your notes, I give you a word Doc make sure you kind of SAVE other thing and then hit close and restart.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And while that's going on, let me come over.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or wait for so let's do this so that's going to take well I said already, so I have 53 minutes so we're in barrel on So what do I do is inside your zip right, and since your folder you have all this stuff right here, right, so how doctors command contacts, these are just.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Examples of commands and so in this case I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: got some URLs, for then I have the commands for that friendly Hello So how do I build an image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know, then how can I can lift that image how I run that container so remember on the internal we expose it through port 80.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's my container port but i'm going to actually expose it to the outside world.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As 55 550 why because most of you probably have firewall sitting on your built into your windows machines and doesn't allow things below a certain port to actually be exposed, so you pick really high numbers, so that they can be exposed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So once I run this docker run command my containers gonna run so that I can then go to my machine so local host, and this is that hosts file you're talking about this is probably one that's where that's not the same local host common problem.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is we've got broken for your sass stuff this local local host means the local machine it's a it's a built in understanding that's been around for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: How many years and it's just your your your local machine has a IP address that's 127 dot zero dot zero dot one, which means your machine and that's local host as the name.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I need to local host is basically the machine that you're on right and then, so we can enter http localhost 5055 550 that comes from this one command.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right and I know there will see our little flask service put back what we put in a hat back to my code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then we can list our containers, while the Ryan can stop them remove them, we can remove the image, so we don't want the image to be sitting down there you can use the docker image or remove our own to remove it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, it has some other things so like if you needed to to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Excuse me.
Let me scroll up here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you needed to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: run your docker use a detached command here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then that's been trying it'll stay writing, but if you to connect to it to actually.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Look at it and kind of see what's going on, remember it's actual Linux little.
MS Analytics Class 2021: lightweight microservice you can use this docker exact minus I connect to this is the container name this test really Hello that's what got a moving target a lot of little red drawing here right this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Is the container name, so this is the image name is that the container eight, this is the container name joining us, I need to attach the container right the image is not what's running in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: front and then it's been bashed don't worry too much you don't already know this necessarily per se, this is for the more it tight nerd people who say hey, how can I connect to my container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As shelves see what's going on i'll show you this so that makes sense, but these commands are in there and then we're actually going to publish it to the docker hub, but you could, if you built a really cool.
MS Analytics Class 2021: image that's really awesome when you say hey I want to publish this up to the docker hub and use it then there's the commands there to say hey Doc login you log in with your doctor ID tag it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then push it to to the docker hub, and then this is like hey I want to call it down and run this container straight from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The the docker hub, this is how you can do it, so instead of actually having to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: install the end you're grabbing the image and having put that locally, you can do the docker run and it will pull it down from the docker hub and run it so one thing to note with docker hub that's a public space right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, most companies you go to there, and probably have our own container registry service, whether it be if they're doing the cloud with things like Google or azure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or aws they all have container registry, is where I can then push to that container registry i'm going to show you that next week.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But that's how I can take an image I built and publish it to the docker hub I fell into like service out so all these images were using like earlier when we were when I showed you the from.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I showed you in the docker file here this from Python three six slim, this is just an image that somebody published up to the docker hub so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I can fire.
So let me see if my.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker containers my excuse me, my machine is backup.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I should be pretty quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Any questions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That the doctor last year.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This review.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's all okay.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: on you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, always ask about some of the comments that hey this broke last fall we install docker and I was like Okay, why do we sell.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: US for playing around.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, all right, because I say we.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have conversations I promise you like we have meetings are really aligned curriculum and thought that I was like I fall asleep, but one of these meetings and Miss but a kind of make your default Dr abbott didn't teach you a doctor because.
Jim Clark: classes about what am I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: don't think the other classes what time series i'm like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, so.
Jim Clark: Okay you're back.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm sorry.
Jim Clark: Jamie this the gym what was We were encouraged to to go get additional badges after the blockchain.
Jim Clark: guys occasion.
Jim Clark: and fight the more advanced badge and so you needed to put Dr on does it and then and then suddenly.
Jim Clark: My machine got balled up with a few other people on so that that's what was driving it, it was it was unintentional.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: One thing that i'm not seeing is probably because this.
Jim Clark: Is a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A so I saw this on my local machine my house, so one of the problems I have is, I have a philosophy that was Watson machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And sometimes it's hard to retest stuff i've already tested, so I tested this on my local machine at my house and what I did, is it gave me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This screen saying I need to install the windows subsystem for Linux to, and so, if, when you do that installing the reboots wait a way of comes back up and you log back in wait a few minutes to see if this pops up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you might have to go and install this kernel my guests, because I came from a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: An azure machine it's already installed, but what will probably happen for most of y'all what you're going to do is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Once you get to this step and hit close and restart is very important here log back in your computer and doctors and start up and it's going to give you this message, right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That says unless you've already installed Doc here last year last fall wps all installations and complete and what you do is you go to this link right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then click going and instead go to this page and then talk about page will go right to here you just click this w SL Linux kernel update package it's just an MSI downloaded run it and then, once it's done running restart your machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, once you restart your machine what you want to do is go back to this getting started page and just set you up account and follow these instructions I can't show you already have my account with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: pick a name what you want it to be, you should tailor the email give it a password it's all free to order some credit card going to be associated to it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that way you have a login issues you can log in and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Once you have that you can go to this Dr desktop.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and start it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so now it's starting my desktop right here so down here this little So if you go down here this little little arrow right here the passport on here, and you click on it you'll see a little whale looking thing right here sorry as humans.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cooperating see all the way up a little well you know the taskbar and see like Oh well, with some actually look like this little area look like this, so you click the little arrow you'll see a little wheel down there, and so, when you start it, you can click sign in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And this will sign you into doctor, so I have a Stat teacher.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't know why so slow sorry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: breaks, in other words don't worry I.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have a backup plan.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, this is taking too long, so i'm going to go see my backup plan.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Alright, so I can kind of show you guys all steps right.
let's see the following.
MS Analytics Class 2021: that's not.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, I think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think if I started okay good good backup plan it just took a second first started, so why the so now, I see like a docker PS.
MS Analytics Class 2021: He is something like that right so we're all good you're having a Napster you're gonna have an extra step, probably, which is this one step, where you need to go and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and install this this w srt widget the windows subsystem for Linux to which you might do is just going to step some right off the BAT and just type this little aka Ms w SL to Colonel.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And and click on that it'll go right here to describe install the Colonel.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right up right away, and then go install docker now I think about I would just done, the instructions backwards and put this is step one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Go install the kernel and they go into the doctor so you'll have the second you don't have to worry about this, possibly coming like I said get my text you have an email, if you have any issues installing docker don't wait, you know don't threat Fred text me and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we'll get it working so now Dr what we want to do is, I want to cover so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm gonna go back to hear what I had to close this apologize it's like because I had to reboot the machine so it's all working so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Remember everything starts with this docker file, so I have have downloaded onto the desktop.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The week three.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Week one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Week three.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Actually pretty that you notice right here, when I started visual studio code I install docker it says hey you know docker now would you like to install the doctor dissension and the answer is yes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and installing docker extension why because we'll see you Sunday that the docker extension will show you your docker containers to see how quick this lock icon here now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I click here i'll see my i'll see my containers that are working my images, I can connect the registries and whatnot and work with it so to install that the other thing we can install under extensions is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When I did this earlier is I think there's a double a Microsoft has a w SL extinction as well, but don't worry about that for now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we'll go back to here so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right here, you can like the new MAC the mo anyway, then when matt i'm looking at jack.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What has it all one tensorflow freaking super fast, so people ask that the guys in the chat so my new MAC.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The MAC book pro 13 in the in the MAC mini map and the macbook air when you're back okay helping me learn based in one processor, and has 16 neural net cores on it and they work with Google to optimize them for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they've optimized them to run tensorflow like super fast, so you just Google like Edwin tensorflow there's some guy I think he might be in Australia.
MS Analytics Class 2021: did a whole comparison of running the tensorflow models against on windows on a MAC book pro 13 with the top of line you know right at ray's on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: graphics card, and I think I seven until chip I guess the one chip and medical care and it's pretty fast so so Dr so if we go to a command prompt.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and launch a command prompt me go into the folder for week three so when you download week three.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can find three.
MS Analytics Class 2021: folders here we have this red wine docker, and this is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: misspelled curious, this is a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The the docker for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Also usefulness delays getting in katie are sorry i'm like hi the chats here for a second distracted me, we have to Polish and friendly hello, this is like the Hello world of docker that i've created writing kind of simple Python for the flat service simple docker files requirements.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Also, what about here is docker commands attacks right so when this up the test the commands and he This is just all based on this friendly Hello world one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, if I go into the red wine docker have made it a little easier for you so from the command PA I just created some deploy and and deploy command files for you, so if I open those up if you just via Dr installed properly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And, and then just go into this breadline docker container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I say that container sorry folder this folder.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Where I didn't have any life easy for you to start stop this one, so you can play with it right, so I have deployed command, which says hey build the red line.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker APP and then, when I sit on it's attached interactive all this stuff using port 80 and then ignore all this great stuff.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Down below here were to come back next week, I just have it in there and commented out so that it doesn't run for come back to the green part next to this part right here is about time on earlier on, but I can actually take my docker image I built.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and save it to a container registry and azure this is how this works, but we'll come back to this i'ma show you how this works next week, but the main part here is this part these two lines so build my image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: slices room, I read was a comment and a command file, these are these are batch commands this is dos dos been around here, this is what made Bill Gates a billionaire Ms dos and so these are just this all command follows just commandments.
MS Analytics Class 2021: executable right, so this is the building this building image and then this is the run that takes advantage of ones that container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Exposing more Ada and Ada right and we're naming our container and why and we're using the red wine image for that container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then finally here commented out i'll show you these in a second, but this is how I can attach to that container and look at the logs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, like this was kind of important this one right here, so if your if your code is not working right, you can use, you can just use this docker logs.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Myself and then your container ID and then it'll actually tail out the errors are the logs are coming out of containing i'll show you in a second.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's what I have in these folders so you have to folders with two different.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Dr Nathalie images gym but they have a docker files in there to go the images so let's work with the friendly hello, one that will work with the red wine and then we'll take some questions that call it a night so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then the other thing is on here is we're going to do this right and is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you set up your environment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's two packages I didn't have to install and that was flask and request.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we're going to need those for the containers are in and build running flash so that we can expose our rest API that we can have a little micro web server that's running inside of our our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker container and serve it up that API that we're a call and then, when this request package is what's going to us so that we can call, so we can make a call to that container for within Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and say hey hey can PE class rest service running inside a docker container here's some variables that I want here's some data I want you to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: predict line quality for me and that request package has all that functionality to make the Web call to those services so that I can then send back this file send back the data for the prediction right that's a request, so do that.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have to go to your content package manager so just go to and the kind of three and if you installed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you're on windows and you set up an excuse me one window away and you set up your environment as admin make sure when you go here to the prop that you right click more.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and run as administrator if you didn't do the run as administrator you just ranger anaconda prompt and starter package so your current environment, excuse me, then you just stopped running running normal.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we have to activate our environment, because we want to install those packages into that environment so notice or in base right now, so what economy and for us.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we're gonna come back with now these cognitive commands i'm writing right now nothing to do with the docker image and container we're doing this just has to do with me being able to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: run this test script i've created.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that I can call the container so inside them the root of this folder here, there is a red wine quality last test.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Python this is so that I can call I can go to the docker container there's a request package install sending some data, so this is three rows of data i'm sending in all these values for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What the values are some independent variables to this with this request and i'm getting back to the predictions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so that's why i'm installing these packages, if you remember in the docker file we use pip and this requirements file install packages in our docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: container as our image, you know for image sizes docker file in it that knows how to the what we need, when we started container and the container restart to make sure these packages are install it's going to make sure that it runs this APP ui folder that sensory out our container right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So back to hear me jumping around, so I activated my colleague, environment and then I was just all these packages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that I can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Have the necessary packages, I need for testing and whatnot and visual studio code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Does that make sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we're using content inside of our container and build for docker are using currently using a light weight.
MS Analytics Class 2021: slimmer variable Python, but we also have the calendar environment right our machine with visual studio code and I would install these packages, so that I can run some tests code today's call my container i'm running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I think this is funny install last one of its dependencies is a package called it's dangerous so but flask is used everywhere, so I think some coder had fun and decided to name their package pager for just for fun.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we install flask and now let's install request.
MS Analytics Class 2021: packages.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It might be great might be a video game or experts so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cool So these are just going to be used so like when I come to this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to open up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this is this is gonna be used for like this test right here that's why I installed packages they're not the kind of stuff not being used like I said in the image of the container for docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So so let's do this let's let's see what friendly Hello does so, starting with the docker file it pulls down Python three six what does that mean well, if you remember slide like to I think it was a popular hub that docker for me close all my social media and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Thanks for popping up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I gotta have that pipeline dr.com 1986 pretty cool so now do you like reading player one and ready player to the book, the person making those references.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To those books.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: I mean I yeah I know if memory serves as I was saying, if I took a gap that what that file name for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Taking a guess but yeah the revised icon listening ready player to the book right now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: came out in October i'm already listened to one and watch the movie but for those who don't know Ernest cline it's like super it's like a soup it's like the ultra nerd.
MS Analytics Class 2021: book on gaming and it's actually really good book so so I got a docker hub a bad path docker hub.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have all these repositories i'm going to explore us, you know possible we can explore all the different images around conflicts right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when you can see all the hormones and client mongo Maria I mean everybody is you know, this is my doctor so popping right so Microsoft, for example, created sequel server and ported it to Linux.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The way they made it available right away for people to use is a created a docker image of sequel server.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Running in a thing was ubuntu Linux and they just put it up out there on docker on a docker and docker hub, and you can just go download it and run and try it out right, and so you can see, all these different I mean there's tons and tons of content.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But we're just going to search for Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we got a Python here's a doctor official images for Python if we go to see all the tags supple tides to not really like three channels right So these are like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: People beta testing way out for versions of Python but we got out of here, you can see 361 This is all we're using right here, right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just picked this one, because I don't want to use for a while works, but if you love it's just as docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker file so they're pulling debian Linux this particular image or setting up a bunch of stuff installing some packages and all right, so this is the docker file that you use to build this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This Python three six slim.
MS Analytics Class 2021: image right, and so we can build on top of that, to build our so we can just call that door and Jordan friendly Hello free six so it's going to be.
MS Analytics Class 2021: going to be image that's using Python three six that's an analytics debbie and Linux is going to have a lightweight version of Python.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or create directory in there to put our code for an install the flask that's coming from the requirements and suppose for a and then run this APP poi so what am I going to mail fraud.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I go to friendly.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Tell a 36 i'm going to do.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This actually the move you guys over here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like i've had that there the whole time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we've got over there, so I can do this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I might pull up right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That little text file, I gave you with the command right, so if we go and look i'm gonna close this out if I set that up i'm gonna say this docker commands so we're gonna do is we're going to build our friendly Hello image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, Dr bill misty friendly Hello.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you can see it's going out there it's downloading.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That and look at the SPA sizes right 27 minutes nine minutes right but kind of lightweight right if you go to your see windows, if you go down here to like you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I go to like think about why you use Linux versus like windows like if you go to your C drive and there's your windows folder that's kind of like the heart of your ios right right three already I was three four gigs almost forgotten going.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Am I stopped it's like 2030 gigs the answer here, you see us.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For these containers person asked a question earlier, we can get really, really like lightweight you know, this is not only you know this docker container just not installing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: A full thing a Linux right it's installing certain subsets of it because ways containerization technology or the docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some of the heavy lifting stuff is done on the host at the host.
MS Analytics Class 2021: subsystem on the host machine, so your your host windows machine or your host Max machine where you're running docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: lot of heavy lifting lifting is being done on the files that are already there, and this lightweight microservice container just needs certain model packages to be able to run the application inside of there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now we have an image right So if I go to the docker image list so list the images I have on my machine and now you can see, we have friendly Hello right see it right there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hundred and 21 minutes very, very lightweight very small.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now, if I want to run that container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to run it without that minus the command and that's why I have this control see right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That might be, is what the taxes and i'll do that in a second down here, so you can see okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to say run docker run my SP i'm expose port 505504 on my local machine that i'm running my container on this port 80 is internal port.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That my containers using where's that coming from us coming from this docker file right here that's coming from right here i'm exposing saying hey expose for a run it and then the main thing is doing is coming from this right here, this is what saying hey run this flask APP on porting.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So when you run the first time because it's got back porting exposed it's going to say hey do you want to a firewall might say hey you and allow access they allow access network and so those right here, it says control see my prompt is sitting here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that's because of the fact that I didn't do this minus D option, right here we'll go back to that in a second so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So now, I can test my APP So what will host I just need my local machine and because I expose it through 550 here I go to my browser here, if all goes right, this is the big moment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Hello world hostname those my host and that's the internal Dr hostname container so we start next week, talking about Cooper daddy's We have lots of containers running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know when whenever the Cooper daddy's cluster manager it manages all those containers that are running it knows those little internal hostname.
MS Analytics Class 2021: where things are out so that it can rock you to the right container so as you come in.
MS Analytics Class 2021: like an application that's running off a docker containers inside of Cooper daddy's clusters that cluster manager and Cooper daddy's goes Oh, you need to route it to this container because that's the one you're working on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, has all the software to orchestrate okay i'm going to send you over there, so this is not my house, because if you go look at the host name of my machine.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The actual host name of this this machine is open command prompt system in the Info hosting of this machine is actually bought six 820 21 million right but that's the internal hosting of that little women it's micro service docker container right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm going to stop this container because I didn't do minus the option why right I gotta hit control see now stop So if I come back to here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: is still running right, so how I really started.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I do docker container list down here i'm going to close this poll, this was just my that's my anaconda prompt from any comments and some packages, this is just the command prompt.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if I run docker container list you can still see hey that my friendly hello, this is the image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is the container ID, this is the container name, right here, you can see it's created status it's up spin up two minutes or so the ports are listed on you see hey take 5050 products port 80 right So if I actually stopped that container I can say docker container and stop.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Sharing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, and then the container ID right I use the name organize it so i'll just grab the ID and stop it, and then, if I want to.
Of course it's pain.
There we go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just run the same command during the getting started to put rm to now, but before I hit really when we say one thing, remember, I said hey you can install docker extension videos through your code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: notice now, you see, right here now, I have there's the images that I haven't saw my doctor here's the friendly hello, I can start it from here, I can remove from here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I give you the option here, so we can see the logs in to see where it's going and catalogues there's a cool commands here right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So island right here and say there you go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So then, if I come back command profit, you see how that's cool right so then let's just remove it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So for me when I hit refresh this should go away, so you know containers and it's still there, so if I want to remove an image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can then actually really image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now generally you're not going to remove the image per se reason why you remove the images he built it and it was broken it wasn't writing history building.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You don't want to have my own have that broken bad image there you're moving you fix your stuff is evil again right once you have a good image generally have to you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Constantly deleting address, and you get a good image you're going to build your image an image to be there and then you're going to start those containers, as you need a MIC so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm gonna show you one other command and then we're going to take the last six i'm going to go back and build my image again real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I just I just want to show you how to delete it but i'm gonna go ahead and build it again real quick.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then learning a few different nouns and i'll show you what happens when you run in the interactive mode so without that minus that's what this minus the option, right here, right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so now, if I run this active mode That was my problem comes back if I come back to my browser.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now maintainer still learning but let's say if I wanted to actually connect to this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: container and look at what's like look at files and stuff underneath it, because this is the winning side, so you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: there's test from the hell of 36 is the name of my container so you can use this docker exact minus I minus T that's the name of the container and hey appropriate bash on so don't do this, unless you really know what it says, but yes, that APP.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Those docker file at poi.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is what did that, right here, I created a directory called APP and I said hey add my action, excuse me, this is, this is the one for red wines, let me go back over here if I come right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is the docker file from the hello, I created directory called working directory path, and I said add dot dot and Linux.
MS Analytics Class 2021: me, though, the files folder and currently in all the files in that folder to this APP so whenever so it's basically saying hey when you create and build this docker image.
MS Analytics Class 2021: When you go build this docker image copy these files in a folder that reason why do that, so that when we come right here, can we run command Python and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know we're studying architecture at that APP fall is sitting there, and so that whenever I say Python file this file right here is a train So if I do more poi you can see there's that same bar right there right more docker file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then I gotta hurry.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's the far right, and so the other thing you can do is and then right now and i'm inside that container So if I type exit that will get me out of the container The other thing you can do is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: it's over here I didn't put it here, but if you look in the deploy right here, these will command right here, if I do Dr logs so like if I say docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: logs minus F and I did the container ID but only do this first I need to get my container ID right, so I say container or docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: docker PS, so my container ID right there, so if I say, Dr.
MS Analytics Class 2021: logs minus F container ID this is showing like a man, so I come right here i'll make this little smaller secrecy, though the browser.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Come I come right here, I hit enter notice there's my request right to my request is just show me what this is doing right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so fast along, so I can control see my docker container still running so then you're selling come here for why not do you may live stuff I can stop it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can remember.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can then go right here and say hey let's read this image I get it off of here as well, right.
Otherwise i'm popping up.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have that belief so let's so now let's close this out i'm going to close this folder and what I wanted to show you Okay, how do I take docker.
MS Analytics Class 2021: flask and package that red wine pickle file server out predictions right, so instead of visual studio code i'm going to open this folder right here week three folder I download i'm so open it at the root right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because, all I need on here is, I just want to be able to run this tap this flask test poi.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And what is this going, this is saying that URL isn't my local machine we're going to run our services for at at it's going to be served out as wine quality.
MS Analytics Class 2021: or i'll show you this all second a text file that i'm praying i'm creating a variable called text, it has this json json dumps which is just a dictionary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: enlist extremely just some dictionaries with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some other dictionaries have pictures inside of dictionary so row one or two or three and then there's a dictionary inside of that that says fix it city here's the variable value.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But volatile acidity there's a by this is my independent variables i'm gonna send this text package, right here, right here this data comes to visit with this request package we installed it earlier we're going to say hey go to this URL send it this this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This data dump here's the headers we need we're saying hey we're going to do a content type of application json this type of file or json file i'll talk about Jason possible more.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Later on, but it's just a it's just a way to structure the data and then we're gonna print out what the results are so when I say hey make this request and it's a tennis back the results of our predictions and print them out So how do we make that work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We come inside our.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Week three regular doctor made it easy for you, so you have the docker file right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And it's very similar right it looks just like what I did I did have to do this upgrade pip command, so I want to update my package manager so let's just say is upgrade the package.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, I have a requirement steps here, but one thing I noticed the Sierra here as an ad dash source and what that is i'm just showing you how you don't have to have you can just have your docker file right at the root now these command files are not really using them for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like they're not getting in our container I just have them there for you guys and gals to make it easier for you to play with deploy it out of writing and you say hey.
MS Analytics Class 2021: deploy it and fix my code it's just it's just the commands you need to start and stop your document, but I go on the source, I have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Some stuffing here, I have a standard folder I have my red wine quality flask poi I have my requirements and have some settings files.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So let's look at those so, starting with the requirements, these are the packages, but notice this case I actually put the versions and packages I wanted.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you don't have to, but you know remember us talking about you can export your current environment to GMO file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And when you export the animal file, it shows you all the packages that are inside of there and also has the versions of the package that installed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is important because if you needed to container eyes your application to run your model and you built your model on these versions of package in this case psychic learn.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And non Pio one point at one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can make sure that you use of St versions of the package so that you know you're getting the same results you expect right, you know you're going to use a newer version of the package or an older version, the package.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and possibly get a slightly different result, so you can actually any requirements, but the versions of the package you want, which is a good thing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have the settings so you've earned the settings I showed you that before we have at grew, this is the the local folder where the Python file is, in this case on lap and we also have this APP stack.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And what we're doing right here is i'm carrying this is the work from home or the office hours you're asking about this, I think.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is where we're using outstanding from this settings Python file or bringing this APP static variable, and the reason we're doing that is because our model file is in this other folder called static right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The reason why Dr given source folder we also this one other folder called stag that has that pickle file we save that with our model right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that's what that so that's what the settings is that's the requirements packages we're going to install.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is all being pulled by this num pie so right copy the contents of the source directory.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All that stuff into that slash APP directory we're going to run this red wine quality last one Python script for exposing on port 80 this is we're installing packages, we need that's what the docker file does.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me close this out because that's the one faster, you know actually close it out some visual studio code.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and close out that so and then so that's so that's the apartments so settings so in here already doing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Reporting flask reporting request redirects some from flask we're importing all these different packages, we need.
MS Analytics Class 2021: in their quest flask is the actual main thing to serve up in the API the rest service request hey going to request to get some data to send you back some redirect json fly So if you remember i'm sending in this json file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So this this is json json file so so we'll take that json file and read it in this case it's going to spill serve back out the results from our flask and json.
MS Analytics Class 2021: get it for people right to their model statement pickle get import pandas this in this case i'm using the data as payment.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now, and then the non pie and then this is where the ball is coming from, and then at fly so so to when you create the slack api's you have to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: have this X equals flask underscore name, and this is what is put in the code to be able to start that flask service and then you just have these functions and these functions have these APP wrap route some fun with them right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, in this case we have one column, so in this case we're actually serving out to different folders in this particular one party flask run.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We have one room So if you just went to the thing your room is your turn Hello world, so I kind of put that in as test, but if you go to slash where I want quality, so, if you look right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the testing Python file, I have here we're going to wind quality to do the prediction.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But also have another function in there with the route through or I can just say okay if i'm trying to throw the wine quality and get some weird error.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can just go to slash and if I get back Hello world at least know why containers running at least know my flat service Detroit.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You wouldn't put Hello world in production job for testing purposes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And for this, I just wanted to show you how you can actually and it's very common to do this, you can have multiple services rest services being show started out from your one Python file for with FLEX right it's very common and so you might have.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You might have one for red wine and one for white wine, so my father's wife holly read and I have another one slash white collar white and it's usually a different model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, then this is just a function call everyone, and with this APP route for this functions last knows, this is the function, we call when you go to slash line for me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's going to read them a pickle file it's going to get that json file we soon that's that part right they're going to read it and read it in a pan right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then restarted bringing know pies because remember we build the model and numb pie, but to make things easier, so you can name your variables and then i'm actually sending this json file and put it into pandas and then I could actually create it to a non Pio right right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That I then send to my model forget function right so here's my model I loaded up so now, I have my model, so I can do predictions from that file I then get the json data my independent variable so I can see it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right, so I have that pandas data frame with these values persona predict the gets got three rows and then I use it to create this dictionary, so I can send this non Pio right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Actually, this is the results i'm sorry this results, this is a dictionary family sent back this is the result so once I do the model i'm going to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: use a for loop to populate i'm sending three rows in here on a populate the three results back into this dictionary.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So that when I send this returns back with the results that json format, you have those results.
MS Analytics Class 2021: As a dictionary, and so that's what's going on there, so we call the service we build our model we get the data we sent to it and read it in as we create a payment data frame.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We then converted to a non Pio a using a non Pio recommend command.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Reading that and then we do our prediction against the model, and we do a little simple for loop to populate our results to send back, and then we return results and then this is the main part where it saying hey run this last service as Ada so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, how does this work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Very Similarly, so I made life a lot easier for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So these demand files are part of So if I go to red wine docker the command files aren't part of the the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: they're not part of the docker image docker container they're just there for me, so that you can for you guys and gals to be able to easily play with this container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and not have to remember the command, so I have the build a building and i'll run it for you, so if you just say deploy it's going to build a red wine docker image for you, and then I still run the red line docker image for you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you can go to vs code and if he installed, the request and last packages inside of your current environment that you're using when this service finishes installing getaway car is installing the package is the sign of the Skype the scientists were and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And all the packages it's dangerous for for all that, so this is where it's going through, and you can see, if you look, you can see.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The docker file here, and I can you can see where it's actually going in and saying, these are the docker commands right see to a five there's a docker man had source vs Dr Mann four or five right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, then ignore old junk at the bottom of the rams Those are just stuff i'll talk about next week, but they're just they're still there.
MS Analytics Class 2021: for you to have them and so now I run my service now much services running on port 80 and now we can test it, we can say hey I got this docker image running if I go back to here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You should see the images and containers right there's a red line so if I right click here say run current follow their active window, it should say these three rows of data.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To this docker container and if it all goes right I should get back three results for classifications, for the screen wines, based upon the values and yellow.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So we gotta wait for the privilege to start off.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So any questions so far, the kind of making sense.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So here's the thing to know about come right, I have like an hour and a half hour 15 Minutes to show you all this code right, this is stuff that took me months to why it took me like a month of my own learning all this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Several years ago right oh nice so, but the way our fastest ago this weekend and you sit down with my code and play with it.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then For those of you who are it nerds like me you're probably going to be good it's only work Okay, we find those of you that are more business like people.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Like some other friends and that had to do this, you might find yourself getting frustrating but frustrated possibly it's not working.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But the good news is you can text me, you can email me they have office hours on Monday, so my thing would be is you know spin spin tomorrow and Saturday Sunday do or a game to try to learn all this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And play with it and they come to office hours on Monday with questions if you have issues now if your doctor breaks your size or if your doctor just doesn't want it all, if you type doctor it doesn't.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Work you know text me I want you to stop, but so cool our code word right we got back a response I got back a dictionary, it says for zero We predict 5.1 for lying 1.4 point one for line to predict 5.3 so I say zero that one that's too, and we built that by.
MS Analytics Class 2021: By this part right here so that's what this does this this result set right here, you know this part right here is, you know this is loading model.
MS Analytics Class 2021: This is taking the data packet we said, and that request for my own test that this is a dictionary were built.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Around bill to hold those results right, this is creating the array and we can they call because we built our model with the rain, so if you keep trying to remember what that looks like let me do this real quick I come right here excellent go right here.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah I will just like two seconds yeah I know it's a lot to take that first.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah it's you know this is like some I do, I can eat you know all day class all right, but you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We come back here, you can go back to our red wine pickle and right here, right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, if I remember, right here when we split our data out we use non Pio sweater beta right now, our data is made up of these items here right, and so we split our data for built a model we do this, all and none pie, but what i'm doing right here is to make it easy for me to send.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So make it easier for me to send my data through this will test.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Because of flash i'm making it so I can send it with the actual column is equal to install to and he asked me close this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And I know this is the order when it comes to this num pie right and that's what this little function, right here does it say hey read these values I came in read them in and I read the data part of that value.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right so and then, once you read that now pie right and we use that predict function remember model predict so remember right back here remember we we came down here and we.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And we saved our model to the speaker file right, and then we read it back into this to this variable and when we look reading back that variable and all the information we need the call the predict function.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With some data now, this is all double brackets right here to predict what the LIFE I mean based upon this values what we've done here is we've.
MS Analytics Class 2021: said hey i've got this container running a flask web service and it's expecting this data right this X values so that I can then go and say okay from your X values, these are your predictions right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, with these predictions.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We can then with the service Roi I can then go and I can do it myself a web APP or if those who are taking Dr jones's class.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you know, for those of you, thank you, Dr Jones is classic you know you know you move your stop pricing right and you're and you're calling.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The API you're calling the API and the stock prices back this is fairly similar you can take that to canter and you can put in those values for this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you can hit a button and it calls that web service with this data and it gives you back the prediction right, so you think the height the golden apparatus right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The idea is now to have this running I can send it all kinds of other data, so I if I built the Web APP what's just change this value out to make it 90 860 right so now, if I re run this again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know now it's just adding is 5.8 right so let's just say this to 23 right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Now you're 5.6 right So you see where i'm calling the model that I built earlier getting back my prediction right so let's say my sugars like 245345.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right it's gonna be different right wow such as much right but, but the idea here is on this container expecting this json don't have my prediction my independent variables like and then send back what those predictions were.
So.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So That being said, let me show you this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For your homework.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You have two weeks or it's like do you like in a week, we have two weeks and yeah so another way for personal work alright basically.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're gonna take this red wine folder I have, and you have to take the code, I have it and you're going to rename red wine to whatever your data set to use for homework one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And the data set in us and replace it with those guys to set up your own docker image file API to serve out your company, so you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's kind of similar exercise your before, but now we're basically going to take what you did and homework one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you create the template for the people, following that the the job live for the Python ml pipelines from psychic where we're going to take the the pickle fall one you did for homework one and we're going to use that to build a docker image container.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so that you can predict, and so you can use that test file that tested, you can use the deploy and and deploy and all those commands to put your data file in from your pickle say, for your data your update, we may see what you're doing something.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And you're updating in this test file this information with your kids right with what you send them to predict your end up dating in this in this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Class run your columns for your data right, and you can read in your file for your data right, you can leave all the ports and everything the same right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But she had put your data in right and so that's what's changed it like the requirements.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Those might not change if you're just using the random for us, then these all work, but if you use like cody and boosting for your model, the going to make sure you you load the extra boost package, for example.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so the settings won't change and then your docker file, you know going out might change in the docker file is, if you named your Python file, so I can probably call years red wine quality here and call it something makes sense years.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Seeing that change that Father that name there, so this is what I would suggest.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Try spend some time this weekend working on it and then, what I do and.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What I like to do, and this is what I will do is on Monday we have office hours, I will do your homework using a different data set you won't go do that, this time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can, but what i'll do is I will go through the whole exercise as on you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: With your homework and then i'll read explain it again, and those are reported to so we can't make it, but this is, this is what i'll do and then What it does is it gives you another opportunity to see it again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And to see hey I took this framework, I just showed you now, I take this framework and i'm going to fit to another data set and so i'm going to use it as housing data, so you can't use that one.
MS Analytics Class 2021: For this project for this one, but that's what we use for the homework.
MS Analytics Class 2021: The show you this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So i'm gonna basically should I do your homework, with a data set so that way you can see it in action, so you get to see Okay, I have this folder called red one quality I don't quite know what to do, is it for my homework, I can, I have a little idea what you're doing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm going to London you shoot on Monday at your walls, for those who are not be nice to your fellow ads helpful, you know if they're stuck help them with their.
MS Analytics Class 2021: coding, as a group exercise signing them as individual exercise in the sense that you you're using right they come by yourself, but you know it's a group exercise, and we do it all together right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That being said, I do know that that when you saw Dr it might break your stuff so who had i'll do want to make you wait five minutes because I don't want you to have your SAS break so Who was it that said they had to fix and one of the show i'll give you the the floor.
Endert, Craig Russell: that's me.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All right, let me close this out and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll give you a for.
MS Analytics Class 2021: appreciate, so those either lost on here it's Okay, this is this is stuff that I teach.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It people sometimes and they get lost when they see this, the first time.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So I have the office hours, so we have to me, creating your homework, I promise you, if your last please come to the office hours at least please watch the office hours you can't come, I will unmute you in the office hours, I did it last year for those our loss we'll do it again.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So they should be able to i'll stop sharing can they stay can share the show to share so please show them how to fix it and then, if you email me to my Jamie jamie.edu like a word Doc or how you have the instructions all over the campus tomorrow as well.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Very well, recording right so make sure.
MS Analytics Class 2021: you're sure you're okay.
Endert, Craig Russell: Every screen.
Amanda Pham: Yes.
Yes.
Karen Fireman: yeah yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It looks like the epcot ball.
Endert, Craig Russell: Very well.
Endert, Craig Russell: Alright, so looking at this screen i've got a text file That said, extremely important for docker I will be sending this over to Jamie after this.
Endert, Craig Russell: What is in this.
Endert, Craig Russell: Is the file path of the file that needs to be edited in order to allow you to continue using SAS while having docker install on your PC now i'm going to pull this one open.
Endert, Craig Russell: doesn't see drag a.
MS Analytics Class 2021: shortcut up there, we go back up give a quick link to etsy scroll up on the left, see it right there.
Endert, Craig Russell: Very well.
Endert, Craig Russell: Already.
Endert, Craig Russell: So in the etc folder you're going to have a host file what you want to do is one Double Click this host file, you want to open it up with your favorite text editor in this case vs code.
Endert, Craig Russell: If you look right here you're going to see a bunch of stuff down at the bottom that says added by docker desktop.
Endert, Craig Russell: You want to comment that out.
Endert, Craig Russell: When you comment this out docker will stop working.
Endert, Craig Russell: When you and commented SAS will stop working.
Endert, Craig Russell: i'm sure there's more elegant solution, but this is simple and it works so really quick i'm going to show you what it what I mean when I say SAS breaks.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So it's you might try this.
MS Analytics Class 2021: On the line 28th add the word local host after Cuban 80s that Dr dot internal out of space space try local host.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and local see online 20 yeah local host like that save it and see if that'll work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So what that means is what that says, is it will work, it was 127 dot 004 will resolve to you to do readings that docker and kernel are also results to local host.
MS Analytics Class 2021: we'll see if this keeps them both working if it doesn't then we'll.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: get some kind of failure message on the bottom right of your screen earlier, I don't know if that matters, but just thought i'd let you know.
Endert, Craig Russell: yeah I have to open his admin.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: dad.
Endert, Craig Russell: And doesn't look like I have that kind of option, right here, so I will try them and later on i'll let you know game.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, I sure do I know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But it didn't save the change so your sacrifice totally broke.
Endert, Craig Russell: Right, so I still want to show people what the error look like.
gotcha.
Endert, Craig Russell: So this is using SAS enterprise minor what you're going to find is application could not log on to the server yeah you know, say, a local host James solution may fix this, this is also persistent across all SAS applications going to pull up SAS forecast studio and show you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What happens is as an internal server is running.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Low runs a little server it runs as local host.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And so, in the application connect to tries to connect to local host to run it and so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have a feeling So if you want to do this if you if what you can do is, if you go to your windows explorer at the bottom left there the yellow explorer right click it down the shift key and then actually have to go back up.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So if you go down here with notice about shifty and right click.
somewhere to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Try this if you go to start.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then you have like notepad plus plus for.
Endert, Craig Russell: yeah I got plenty so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: What you do is you're going to do is you can do that, so if you don't manage this actually was once you click on the ship, I wanted to show you how a lot of as admins you can add the file so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: We get so you guys do that, so if you right click on it and say run as administrator top.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll make a video for this for everybody if this works and then Now you can go to file an open, that as the host file.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then try and so you can say.
MS Analytics Class 2021: It might might remind them to start stop the services, I think, possibly.
Endert, Craig Russell: yeah so an easy way to do that, I wish I can show you on.
MS Analytics Class 2021: My.
MS Analytics Class 2021: screen goes.
MS Analytics Class 2021: hey can you give me a favor right then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah test this out and see if it works, and if it does, it can you email me, and let me know and then what i'll do is is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I can play with I can you can let me know which way it works, and I can put a word Doc out for them so they can know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So, but worst case scenario, if anybody brings just text me we'll do a zoom and i'll fix it so don't don't worry if your sass breaks and you need your sass don't freak out, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Just text me we'll do a quick zoom will take you five minutes to fix it for you, but you don't have to send me that that post photos file when it was very little system 32 I mean anything that fall for a long time so yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I have my personal laptop and I will see if it's broken they're like how you did it and i'll i'll see, I think that local host there might fix it.
Ryan Connors: So I can confirm that it works, I had the same problem last fall and.
Ryan Connors: SAS support.
Ryan Connors: Instructs me to add local host to the host file and everything's working fine since I can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: do for you all tomorrow type of a word Doc and put up on the campus.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And that way, if you guys yourself breaks after you install docker you know how to fix it, and if that makes sense and i've been trying to make on your video on this capture video that we're going to fix and then.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You can stop the panic text me you got my cell phone text me email me and we will connect right away, through zoom and, if I have to i'll do like I think Jim will share how you share your screen and give me control fixed right away so thanks for letting me know.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Thank you.
MS Analytics Class 2021: I don't I don't remember if we had this problem last year, not, but I think it might be something to do with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So away there's like what's happened is the Cooper 90s so Cooper he actually gets installed the park docker, this is a fly for next week we'll talk about but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Cooper daddy's actually get some you get like a local local Cooper daddy's cluster that gets installed with.
MS Analytics Class 2021: All your local machine and that's what it's doing is that that command is that Cooper daddy's cluster getting routed that 127 I don't know why Dr decides to.
MS Analytics Class 2021: overtake billable host one, but I will put up a word Doc to how to fix that and then and then like I said, if you if anything's broken for you text me an email me and we'll get it fixed.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But go play with the stuff you know read some go to YouTube do some more videos on docker you read up on docker if you're still a little confused Oh, a doctor is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: And then, and then you play with your weekend and then come the office hours on Monday, and I will do your homework, with my own data set, and you can watch him do it he'll know exactly what to do, for your homework.
MS Analytics Class 2021: You know so and then it'll it'll make your job, a lot easier to just see another example of how it works and the newest of the ticket put your data Center into it and make it work.
MS Analytics Class 2021: so good.
MS Analytics Class 2021: So next week we'll go into like.
MS Analytics Class 2021: To raise and clustering and we'll talk we'll talk more about docker and and it'll start it'll start making a one more sense of like, why do we use.
Wilson Pineda: docker container eyes this a package yourself.
MS Analytics Class 2021: But you know, he was pretty quick right when there's a few lines of code and I have a web application that I can.
MS Analytics Class 2021: predict against my model.
Wilson Pineda: and go.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Right so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: cool all right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Well y'all have a good night.
MS Analytics Class 2021: and enjoy your weekend and like sitting by you're stuck you're broken this weekend or tomorrow, whatever it is that's me and we'll get it fixed.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Thank you, Professor, thank you for.
You.
To good large data set.